# Configuration Parameters
This document introduces the HOCON configuration for NanoMQ 0.19 or higher versions. 

**📢Attention:** The configuration method of the conf file no longer includes the "enable" option. Any configuration that appears in the configuration file is enabled by default.



## Log

Log in NanoMQ allows you to customize how the broker generates and manages log files. This configuration includes settings for the destination of the logs, the log levels, and the handling of log file rotation.

**Example Configuration**

```hcl
log = {
  to = [file, console]                  # Destination of the logs
  level = "warn"                        # Log level
  dir = "/tmp"                          # Directory for log files
  file = "nanomq.log"                   # Filename for the log file
  rotation = {
    size = "10MB"                       # Maximum size of each log file
    count = 5                           # Maximum rotation count of log files
  }
}
```
To make new dir by auto detecting, simply add `/` at the end of dir parameter to indicate it is a folder.
For example to auto create "/tmp/nanomq/log/" folder if it is not existed:

```hcl
log = {
  to = [file, console]                  # Destination of the logs
  level = "warn"                        # Log level
  dir = "/tmp/nanomq/log/"              # Directory for log files
}
```

**Configuration Items**

- `to`: Specifies the destination(s) where the logs will be emitted. Optional values:
  - `file`: Write logs to a file.
  - `console`: Write logs to standard I/O
  - `syslog`: Wwrite logs to syslog
- `level`: Specifies the log level. Only messages with a severity level equal to or higher than this level will be logged. Optional values:
  - `trace`
  - `debug`
  - `info`
  - `warn`
  - `error`
  - `fatal`
- `dir`: Specifies the directory where log files will be stored.
- `file`: Specifies the filename for the log file.
- `rotation`: Specifies the settings for log file rotation.
  - `size`: Specifies the maximum size of each log file. Once a log file reaches this size, it will be rotated. The value can be specified in KB, MB, or GB.
  - `count`: Specifies the maximum rotation count of log files. When the count limit is reached, the oldest log file will be deleted upon the next rotation.



## HTTP Authorization Configuration

HTTP authentication plugin only works for CONNECT, PUBLISH & SUBSCRIBE are not implemented yet.
HTTP authentication does not support HTTPS for now.

Example :



### Rule configuration for SQLite

Name                         | Type   | Description
---------------------------- | ------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------
rules.sqlite.path             | String | Rule engine option SQLite3 database path, default is /tmp/rule_engine.db
rules.sqlite.rules[0].table   | String | Rule engine option SQLite3 database table name
rules.sqlite.rules[0].sql     | String | Rule engine sql clause

### Rule configuration for MySQL

Name                                | Type   | Description
----------------------------------  | ------ | ----------------------------------------------------------------
rules.mysql.name.conn.database      | String | Rule engine option mysql database name, default is mysql_rule_db
rules.mysql.name.conn.host          | String | Rule engine option mysql database host
rules.mysql.name.conn.username      | String | Rule engine option mysql database username
rules.mysql.name.conn.password      | String | Rule engine option mysql database password
rules.mysql.name.rules[0].table     | String | Rule engine option mysql database table name
rules.mysql.name.rules[0].sql       | String | Rule engine sql clause

### Rule configuration for repub

Name                            | Type    | Description
------------------------------- | ------- | ----------------------------------------------------------
rules.repub.rules[0].server      | String  | Rule engine option repub address (mqtt-tcp://host:port)
rules.repub.rules[0].topic       | String  | Rule engine option repub topic
rules.repub.rules[0].username    | String  | Rule engine option repub username
rules.repub.rules[0].password    | String  | Rule engine option repub password
rules.repub.rules[0].proto_ver   | Integer | Rule engine option repub protocol version, default is 4
rules.repub.rules[0].clientid    | String  | Rule engine option repub clientid
rules.repub.rules[0].keepalive   | Duration| Rule engine option repub keepalive
rules.repub.rules[0].clean_start | Boolean | Rule engine option repub clean_start flag, default is true
rules.repub.rules[0].sql         | String  | Rule engine sql clause

